1.1 Statements of the Structure of A Program

Now we are going to go over some of the basics of writing C++ programs. This is going to be a very shallow indroduction to get you writing simple programs.

We will revisit a majority of these topics in more detail. 

Statements:
A computer program is a sequence of instruction that tells what the computer what to do.
A statement is a type of instruction that causes the program to perform an action.

Statements are by far the most common type of intruction in C++.
They are the smallest independent unit of computation in C++. They act like a sentence in natural language. 
Most statements end in a semicolon. If you see a line end in a semicolon, it is most likely a statement.

There are many different kinds of statements:
- Declration
- Jump
- Expression 
- Compound
- Selection (conditional)
- Iteration (loops)
- Try Blocks

Function and main function:
In C++, statements are grouped into units called functions. A function is a collection of statements that get executed sequentially. 

Every C++ program must have a special function called main.

When a program is run, the statements inside of main are executed in sequential order.

Functions are typically written to do a specific job or perfrom some useful action. For example, a function named max might contain statements that figure out which number is larger.
Its fairly common, in nomenclature, to append a pair of parenthesis to the end of a function name. This helps differentiate between names.


Dissecting Hello World:

Lets look at a hello world script:

#include <iostream>

int main()
{
   std::cout << "Hello world!";
   return 0;
}


Line 1 is a preoprocessor directive. This #include preprocessor directive indicates we want to use the contents of the iostream library, which is part of the C++ standard library. We need this line to use std::cout, as without it, the compiler wouldn't know what std::cout is.


Line 2 is blank and is ignored by the compiler, it just makes it easier for humans to read.

Line 3 tells the comiler that we are going to write a function whos name (identifier) is main. Every c++ program must have a main function or it will fail to link.

Line 4 and 7 (brackets) tell the compiler what is part of the function. This is called the function body.

Line 5 is the first statement in the function main. It is the first statement that is executed. std:: cout standards character outut and << is overrided to allow us to insert the character into the print stream.

Line 6 is the return statement. When the program finishes running, this is the value sent back to the operating system, indicating whether it ran. 0 means everything went okay.


Syntax and Syntax Errors:

In english, sentences are dictated by specific grammatical rules that humans can understand. For example, sentences end in punctuation. The rules that govern the language is called syntax. When you violate a rule, the compiler sends a sytax error.

Let’s see what happens if we omit the semicolon on line 5 of the “Hello world” program, like this:

#include <iostream>

int main()
{
   std::cout << "Hello world!"
   return 0;
}
Feel free to compile this ill-formed program yourself.

Visual Studio produces the following error (your compiler may generate an error message with different wording):

c:\vcprojects\hello.cpp(6): error C2143: syntax error : missing ';' before 'return'



The compiler is telling you it encountered a synatx error on line 6. Syntax errors are common and easy to fix, the compuler usually tells you the issue!

Questions W Answers

What is a statement?

A statement is the smallest unit of computation in C++, where an action takes place.

What is a function?
A function is a sequence of statements that can be called.

What is the name of the function all programs must have?
This is the main function.

What happens when a program is run?
It looks for the main function and runs it.

What symbol are statements in C++ often ended with?
The semicolon ";"

What is a syntax error?
An error thrown by the compiler when you don't follow the syntax rules of the language.

What is the C++ Standard Library?
A library shipped with C++ (a bunch of precompiled code) that has been packaged up and includes additional functionality for your programs.
