4.3 Object sizes and the sizeof operator

Object sizes:


Modern machine data is organized into byte sized units with each having its own unique address.

This analogy is not correct, most objects take up more than 1 byte of memory
Since we access memory through variable names, the compiler hides the details of how many bytes a given object uses from us.

The compiler knows how many bytes of data need to be retrived beased on the var type

There are several reasons to know how much memory an object uses.
an object with n bits can hold 2^n unique values
Thus the size of the object puts a limit on how many unique values it can stores

Second compuetrs can have a finite amount of free memory. We want to limit the number of data we use.


Fundamental data type sizes:

How much memory do objects of a given type use?
The C++ standard does not define the exact size of any of the fundamental types

The standard says the following:

- It must be atleast one byte, where one byte is at least 8 bits,
- The integeral types char, short, int, long, and long must be atleast 8, 16, 16, 32, and 64 bits respectfully

char and char8_t are exactly 1 byte

When we talk about the size of a type, we really mean the size of an instantiated object of that type.
We will present a simplified view, by making some reasonable assumptions that are generally true for modern architectures:

A byte is 8 bits.
Memory is byte addressable (we can access every byte of memory independently).
Floating point support is IEEE-754 compliant.
We are on a 32-bit or 64-bit architecture.


Here are the reasonable sizes:

bool - 1 byte 
char - 1 byte
char8_t - 1 byte

Integral
short - 2 bytes
int - 4 bytes (min 2)
long - 4-8 bytes (min 4)
long long - 8 bytes

For maximum portability, you shouldn’t assume that objects are larger than the specified minimum size.

The sizeof operator:
In order to determine the size of data types, C++ gives the sizeof operator, it takes a variable or a type and returns the sixe of an object in bytes.

using sizeof on an incomplete type results in a compilation error.

sizeof does not include dynamically allocated memory used by an object.

Fundamental data type performance:

On modern machines objects of the fundamental data types are fast, so performance while using or copying these types are not usually a concern.

Types that use more memory are not slower, cpus are often optimized to process data of a certain type.
