5.9 -- std::string_view p2


This is our first encounter with a view type, lets spend some more time discussing it further 

In intro to owners and viewers

say you paint a piecture of a bicycle but you dont have one

you could go to the sore to buy one, you own that bike

ownership is expensive, as an owner, it is your responsoibility to acquire manage and dispose the objects

you could instead just paint a picture of your ornwers bike, you save a lot of time, but you cant customize or ride it, you are just a viewers

std::string is a sole owner
that is why std::string is so expensive, it allocates memory and is responsible for getting rid of it
std::string has an independent place in memory to access
once initilization is complete, you cant trust the initializer (the literal used to initialize it)

it is usually destroyed after init
the initilized object has no control over the initlization value
when we call an object an owner, it is usually the sole owner unless specified


We dont always need a copy, say we want to pass in a function that doesnt modify it but just uses the value

std::string_view is a viewers
instead of making a copy of the string, it makes an inexpensive copy of the view
std::string_view remains dependent on its initializer through its lifetime, 
if the initializer is damaged, we get undefined behavior

std::string_view is best used as a read only function parameters

Here are some misuses:
we create a s inside a nested view then create a string view on it, at the end of the block the string is destroyed but the string_view doesnt know
same with a function that returns a string, the string is going to be destroyed unless used outside

Revalidating an invalid std::string_voew

we can make them valid again by assinging a new valid string to view
sv = s;


be careful when returning a string view if it is viewing a local var

two cases when it is safe to return string_view
first is when viewing a c style string since they live for the entirety of the program




The second one is a function parameter is okay to return since it is out of the scope

if the string passed in is to be killed at the end of the expression than the sv must be used then since it will be left danging after

View modification functions
we can modify our view of the string

the remove_prefix() removes characters from the left side (n characters)
remove_suffix() removes characters from the right side of the view (n characters)

The only way to reset the view is by reassining 

std::string_view can also view a substring

it also may or may not be null terminated, if it is viewing the whole string then it will be viewing the null terminated part if not, then no
if you need a null terminated, you can always turn it into a string

Use a std::string variable when:

You need a string that you can modify.
You need to store user-inputted text.
You need to store the return value of a function that returns a std::string.
Use a std::string_view variable when:

You need read-only access to part or all of a string that already exists elsewhere and will not be modified or destroyed before use of the std::string_view is complete.
You need a symbolic constant for a C-style string.
You need to continue viewing the return value of a function that returns a C-style string or a non-dangling std::string_view.
Function parameters

Use a std::string function parameter when:

The function needs to modify the string passed in as an argument without affecting the caller. This is rare.
You are using language standard C++14 or older and aren’t comfortable using references yet.
Use a std::string_view function parameter when:

The function needs a read-only string.
The function needs to work with non-null-terminated strings.



Return types

Use a std::string return type when:

The return value is a std::string local variable or function parameter.
The return value is a function call or operator that returns a std::string by value.
Use a std::string_view return type when:

The function returns a C-style string literal or local std::string_view that has been initialized with a C-style string literal.
The function returns a std::string_view parameter.
